# Expansion-Project
A SpigotMC plugin for Minecraft which adds RPG functionality.
## Concept
A hardcore fantasy rpg server, featuring custom items and creatures, a custom magic, skill, looting and combat system and potentially more. Completely overhauls the normal Minecraft experience by changing terrain generation, ore generation, mob spawning and more.
## Milestones
- Working corpse system: Players and mobs leave corpses on death instead of items. These corpses can be looted. Looting may require skills, certain items and has additional features such as rare items, item fragility and more.
- Skill system: Includes parent and child skills. Child skills can be leveled up by gaining experience. The higher the level, the more experience is required. Parent skills include a set of child skills. The level of the parent skill is the average of its child skill levels. Leveling a child skill has a chance to level other child skills under the same parent skill. Items/operations will require a certain skill level and can be used more successful the higher these skills are.
- Magic system: Includes a spell system. A spell can be cast into the air, onto a block and onto an entity. Each spell has a number of effects which can happen when the spell is cast. An effect can be positive or negative and has different parameters. If an effect happens when the spell is cast depends on the skill levels of the invoker. A spell has a set of required skills levels. Spells can be attached to spell casting items (wand, staff, etc.). When that item is used, the spell is being cast. A spell also has a cost (usually one of several mana types). That mana comes from a mana container (for example a player or an item).
- Database system: Each player has a profile, which stores race, role, mana, skills, and more in the future (achievements, relationships, effects, stats, etc.). This data is cached in memory on the server and will be saved on a remote MongoDB database when it is not in use.
